---
title: Project 1
description: Build and interactive toy.
header: Project 1
duration: Due October 18
---

Your first project is to create a working prototype for an **Interactive Toy**. Learn about your audience (what are their goals and motivations?), and be purposeful in designing the toy for a particular environment or use case. Visualize the scenario in which a user would interact with this interactive object and design your toy accordingly. The goal of this project is to show that you can make a simple interactive system with physical controls, and that you can keep a user engaged with your system.

Throughout the design and production process, be thoughtful in crafting an object and experience that is intentional. What is the purpose of your toy? Is it for learning? For building connection? Or simply for entertainment? Who is this toy intended for? Be sure to clarify the audience or user of your object, and carefully think through the relationship between this user and your toy. Choose inputs, outputs and fabrication materials that are most appropriate for your concept.

## Due Dates

- Thursday, September 27 - project proposal due in class *(see below)*
- Thursday, October 11 - user testing in class *(see below)*
- <span class="proj">**Thursday, October 18**</span> - demo and presentation of your working project
- Sunday, October 21 - final documentation due on your blog


## Proposal
*Due September 27 in class*

- A detailed description of what you intend to build both from a technical and conceptual perspective - *what* is this toy and *how* will you build it? What is the purpose of this toy? Who is it for?
- A complete bill of materials - this includes things you need to buy AND parts that you already have
- A drawing of the physical object
- A graphic that communicates the interactive system

**Make a blog post of your proposal.** <br>Your proposal will be given a 👍 or 👎 by the following class


## User Testing
*Due October 11 in class*

- You should be 90% finished with the project at this point
- Prepare questions and a demo to receive feedback from your classmates
- Demonstrate functional inputs / outputs
- Prototype of the final enclosure

## Documentation
*Due Sunday October 21 by end of day on your blog*

Your project documentation post must include the following content:

+ a formal description / summary of the project (minimum 500 words)
+ high-quality photos of the finished object
+ video of your working project
+ schematic drawing of your circuit (created in Fritzing, EagleCAD, or another digital tool)
+ the code for your project (posted via gist or as a link to github)

Submit a link to your post on Canvas.

You are expected to document your work thoroughly on your blog as you go. Include details of all phases of the project. Include a project summary as well, explaining what the system you built is, what it does, and what purpose it’s intended to serve. Your summary should be written in a way that someone unfamiliar with our class or your work would understand. You should also explain the technical details about how the project was built (so that you or someone else could conceivably recreate the project).


## Evaluation

You are expected to document your work thoroughly on your blog as you go - your grade for this project will largely be based on your in-class demonstration and on the documentation you publish to your blog. Include details of all phases of the project. Include a project summary as well, explaining what the system you built is, what it does, and what purpose it’s intended to serve. Your summary should introduce the project as if the reader has never heard of the project before.

<span class="proj">[Project 1 Rubric]()</span>
