---
title: Lab 1
description: An introduction to simple circuits.
header: Lab 1 - Simple Circuits & DIY Switch
duration: Due September 11
---

This lab is an introduction to simple circuits. You will learn how electricity flows through components and will practice calculating resistor values based on the power source and components in your circuit. You will learn about conductive materials and will craft a custom switch.

# Objectives
+ Learn to build circuits on a breadboard
+ Understand the difference between components in series and components in parallel
+ Craft a custom switch
+ Build a creative enclosure


# Parts
+ Breadboard
+ Jumper Wires
+ Resistors
+ Switch
+ LEDs
+ Barrel Jack Connector
+ Power supply or Battery
+ Voltage Regulator
+ Insulating Material
+ Conductive Material
+ Alligator Clips (optional, but helpful for the custom switch)

# Resources

# Part 1: Simple circuits
Build 2 circuits on your breadboard - one with 2+ LEDs in parallel, one with 2+ LEDs in series. Be sure to calculate and use appropriate resistor values for the LEDs in your breadboarded circuits. Build each circuit for 5V.

# Part 2: DIY Switch
Craft a custom switch and replace the button in one of your circuits from Part 1 with the switch you made.

# Part 3: Creative Enclosure
Choose one of the circuits that you made in part 2 and build a creative enclosure. You should completely hide the electronics inside your enclosure. Think about a creative way that someone could interact with this simple circuit.

# Blog Response
Thoroughly document each part of your lab and post it to your blog. Your post should include photos of each working circuit and explain in writing what each circuit does, and include a schematic drawing for each. Document your lab in a step-by-step format and please focus on posting informative and clear photos!
